starving Palestinians in Gaza fear food
shortages will worsen following the
latest attacks on Aid workers the head
of world Central Kitchen is now
demanding the Biden Administration call
for an independent investigation into
Israeli air strikes on Aid workers in
Gaza well Christopher laier is Secretary
General of Doctors Without Borders and
he's joining us live from Geneva
Christopher thank you very much making
time to be on the program as you know
multiple Aid groups are suspending their
operations in Gaza either in
indefinitely Or temporarily as they
assess the security situation what are
you
doing mine and our condolences to the fs
friends families and colleagues of the
victims from uh World Central Kitchen
and that horrific accident that happened
a couple of days ago we ourselves have
been victims of multiple uh attacks in
in Gaza we've lost five staff members
and the humanitarian Community as a
whole is now at the horrific figure of
having 200 of our colleagues killed
providing assistance uh in Gaza at the
moment is a really critical objective of
ours the the needs that we are seeing
particularly the medical needs are
atrocious um we are seeing badly wounded
patients we are seeing raising rights of
Mal raising rates of malnutrition and
yes we want to stay in Gaza but but
since the start of this uh conflict we
have been assessing the risks to our
teams on a daily basis this is an
incredibly dangerous and difficult place
to work and there are no guarantees
there we want to stay there are many
many patients who need assistance but
the risks are extremely
high so I suppose the question becomes
what can you do to keep your staff alive
as you said 200 Aid workers across
groups have been killed since
October for this figure this awful
figure of of two 200 and which is of
course just a tiny fraction of the total
number of people killed in Gaza as who
were just reporting that figure has now
ticked across to the the horrific
33,000 Mark and what I would say is that
there's been discussions clearly what
has happened in terms of these 200
humanitarian workers killed is a
complete failure in terms of
coordination with uh Israeli forces we
are used to working in Conflict areas we
work in Conflict areas every day around
the around the the world um and what
what has been a complete failure here is
that we don't have contact uh on the
ground with the IDF troops but more than
that for me this is a signal of a lack
of willingness to change how the
conflict is being fought and the respect
given to humanitarian workers protection
of humanitarian workers is a is uh
enshrined in humanitarian International
humanitarian law clearly that is uh
being not being adhered to and so what
we need is more than better coordination
we've been talking about the need for
that to be improved for months now but
we need the political will to change uh
the the risks towards humanitarian
workers and for the population as as a
whole because this conflict cannot
continue in this fashion ultimately
there needs to be an immediate and
sustained ceasefire you said Doctors
Without Borders doesn't have contacts
with uh on the ground with troops do
does your organization have any kind of
communication lines of communication
with the Israeli military and also the
Israeli military announced in the
aftermath of the world Central Kitchen
attack that they were now going to open
up what they're calling a situation Rune
right to coordinate movement of
humanitarian uh workers on the ground
have you heard anything concrete about
that well yes the Situation Room has
existed already as far as I'm aware I
mean we have a we're part of a
coordination room um uh as it as it
stands so uh as far as I know this is
nothing new and is part of the system
that has already um been uh failing so
but yes and you can tell from answer we
do have contact um uh with the Israeli
military through the the the branch that
is called Kat which is responsible for
our Safety and Security as well as that
for Palestinians in Gaza and the and and
the the West Bank and so we do
communicate with them in terms of our
movements where we uh we Mark our
vehicles where we're living where our
facilities are and despite that um we
have as well as a number of others been
uh victims of some trag tragic attacks
okay I have to ask you and you're well
aware of this that uh given the recent
report by the IPC which is this uh this
collection of Aid groups on food
security uh given the recent report that
famine is a very real risk across the
Gaza Strip I know obviously Doctors
Without Borders is primarily concerned
with health care and and Medical Care um
but if people aren't eating I'm assuming
that your teams on the ground are seeing
that what is the impact of the food
insecurity that that you're
seeing yeah AB absolutely I mean
malnutrition is a is a medical um
condition and we are seeing Rising rates
of malnutrition um in all of our um
facilities just uh a couple of weeks ago
I was in the alaxa hospital in the
middle area of the Gaza Strip and in
that hospital Medics were faced with the
impossible choice of giving beds to
trauma patients for people who needed
their wounds dressing and to go into
surgery versus uh children um who needed
those big beds for treatment of
malnutrition and what I would say is
that really shouldn't be a surprise to
anybody you don't have to be an aid
worker you don't have to be nutritionist
or a data specialist to expect that if
you have a population that is under
siege a population that is in a Siege
within a Siege uh as we have in the
north of Gaza and they are then they
have been bombed indiscriminately in
many cases as they has been they're
going to start suffering from
malnutrition pretty quickly yeah
Christopher lock you're a Secretary
General of Doctors Without Borders thank
you very much for coming on the program
thank okay